hello
and welcome to the Stellar open protocol
discussion
so for those of you watching at home
i just want to give a quick overview
I just want to give a quick overview
the goal of these meetings is to talk
about and plan for changes to upcoming
versions of the Stellar protocol
we go over core advancement proposals or
caps for short
these are open source specs that
describe new features designed to evolve
the protocol to meet ecosystem needs
all caps begin with a draft and they go
through a rigorous process before
they're actually implemented in Stellar
core
and even then they don't actually hit
the network until validators vote to
upgrade to the new version of the
protocol that implements them
so crucially not all drafts make it
across the finish line right changes to
the protocol
they require deliberation diligence and
meetings like this
they're just one part in the cap life
cycle so
today we have two caps to discuss and
again these are both
drafts cap 37 and cap 38
both of which have the same goal which
is to introduce automated market makers
or amms for short
at the protocol level so automated
automated market makers are a simple way
to provide liquidity necessary
for asset exchange you may have heard of
things like uniswap
they've shown that automated market
makers are effective at providing an
easy to access liquidity at scale
they essentially allow for the creation
of liquidity pools which are simple and
non-interactive
and which can attract large amounts of
capital and enable high volumes of
trading
so the goal of both these proposals cap
37 and cap 38
is to add automated market makers to
Stellar in order to improve
overall liquidity on the network they
differ slightly but that
they have the same goal so two things
before we start
one this is a technical discussion very
technical so if you want to follow along
i suggest that you read the caps and the
I suggest that you read the caps and the
recent developer mailing list threads
about them
both of which are linked to in the event
description two
amms are a big topic and the goal today
is not to get to the end of the
discussion about them
rather we're just beginning the
discussion so we'll start to bring key
questions about these proposals to light
so that the discussion and debate can
continue on the Stellar developers
google group
just getting started that group is open
participation which means that if you
have an opinion or some great insight
about amms to share
you too can join in just follow the link
in the event description all right
without further ado let us start to talk
about amn so again we have these two
proposals but they have a lot of
questions
in common and then they also have
some differences and we're sort of going
to get into both today
and the first sort of topic that we
wanted to talk about was
a question about reserve requirement and
how it works in each of these caps so
cap 37
has the pool creator the person who
creates the liquidity pool
paid for the pool ledger entry and
cap 38 does not increase
the reserve requirement so i guess the
the reserve requirement so I guess the
first question is
which model is better is there any
concern about
either model so reserve requirements
thoughts
well this isn't very deep but it's
easier to reduce reserve requirements
than
increase them so you know if
if there's doubt i guess it'd be more
if there's doubt I guess it'd be more
conservative to
to have the reserve requirement
initially
maybe we can go over the motivation for
not having reserve requirements because
most ledger entries do
yeah i can sound just kind of weird
yeah I can sound just kind of weird
anyway
so in cat 38 that that version of the
proposal does not
have the reserve requirement and the the
main motivation is basically
it's it's not remotely obvious who
should own this thing in the first place
like why should
any given account be responsible for
paying this which is you know it can't
be used by a single person in the first
place
intrinsically a multi-party thing
and being the person who created it
isn't necessarily a meaningful concept
but more importantly it's not that
there's no reserve requirement at all
because the pool can't exist if there
isn't at least one
trust line for the pool
for the pool share i should say so
for the pool share I should say so
basically
it's kind of like you get it like you
know when you're the first person to
create the pool
you get it like half off you basically
get two entries for the price of one
but then you know if there were a
thousand people using the pool it would
actually be like a thousand people
paying a reserve for one single entry
or if there were you know ten
thousand people would be even more more
like that
so that's kind of the way that i see
so that's kind of the way that I see
this motivation
all right so there's no way to abuse
this because you can't just create an
infinite number of these you'll need
infinite number of trust lines as well
exactly
so so in other words basically the trust
line it sort of serves as the reserve
requirement rather than creating a new
reserve requirement specific to a
liquidity pool
right that's a pretty good explanation
of it yeah
i mean i think like i mean that's a
I mean I think like I mean that's a
reasonable explanation
yeah so
it'd be a bummer if we changed our minds
but yeah and later
wanted to like increase it but that does
seem reasonable
i mean if that's the case maybe we're
I mean if that's the case maybe we're
done talking about reserve requirements
like does anyone have anything else
to to to say about them yeah we sort of
started with the easiest topic
just to warm up so if that one's that
easy and we can move on
i guess like maybe so the reason i
I guess like maybe so the reason i
added that question in the first place
was because
it was more like thinking for
like like they are
potentially very large
i mean the the
I mean the the
pool basically to describe it you need
to
basically describe you know what which
assets are
part of that pool right now we're
only discussing concern products
as part of this but you can imagine
having a lot more complicated type of
pools
so maybe the
the amount of data that is tied to this
one pool
could be much larger than what we are
talking about now
for example i think in the
for example I think in the
i think compound type of world they
I think compound type of world they
have like multi assets
like more than two assets actually in
your pool
and i think in if you have like kings
and I think in if you have like kings
or v3 type of stuff
yeah now you have like those bitmaps
that are in there as well
i mean like the the cost of that becomes
I mean like the the cost of that becomes
much larger so i don't know
much larger so I don't know
you know is it does that count really
just as a single
single ledger entry or do we need to do
something better
if we if right now we make it
basically implicitly
attached to a truss line we're kind of
stuck with that model forever
as opposed to maybe if it had if it
was separate we could imagine okay if we
change our mind and it has to be more
expensive because you know those things
are gigantic
we can you know we have that as a
a separate thing but maybe maybe that
that's fun because
yeah the creator like we can maybe
give the first trust line free or
something i mean kind of equivalent
something I mean kind of equivalent
right like as part of this
I mean the thing is like there shouldn't
be like a gazillion of these things
right
so if it turns out that you know i mean
so if it turns out that you know I mean
i can imagine
I can imagine
going forward that it turns out that
there's any number of things like it
might turn out that we really only want
a few hundred of these liquidity
pools in the network and so
we would turn it into like an auction to
see like which asset pairs are like you
know worthy of of having the automated
market maker or you know or it's just
kind of
the thing is even if it costs like 100
lumens to create one of these things
it just wouldn't be that big a deal
because that if it's actually a useful
liquidity pool that cost would be
amortized over
a large number of users so i i guess
a large number of users so I guess
it doesn't seem like it really matters
because i guess we could also say
because I guess we could also say
later on like hey
price just went up but will grandfather
in the existing liquidity pools or
something
so what happens what happens to the pool
when the last trust line
disappears i think in both proposals
disappears I think in both proposals
it's supposed to be automatically
removed
I'm just wondering if there's some kind
of spammy edge case where
people create and destroy trust lines
quickly to get some kind of
ephemeral pull advantage
i mean i guess it could but like the
I mean I guess it could but like the
nature of the pool it's not really
useful if it's not sitting around
right so
and you you can't be a participant in
the pool if your
trust line doesn't exist because you
wouldn't be able to hold the shares so i
it's hard to see how you could get value
from that
i do think that like nikola has a good
I do think that like nikola has a good
point about the
the multi-asset pools you know like
balancer type pools
and i think in in that kind of a setting
and I think in in that kind of a setting
we could always say you know like
okay well we're gonna charge fees for
charge reserves for those types of pools
but not for these types you know
i think there's a lot of flexibility
I think there's a lot of flexibility
you know we already have a mechanism
by which we can do this which is
sponsorship so we wouldn't have to
invent anything new
it's just a matter of like do we think
that that's even necessary at this point
for me the answer's like probably no
i mean like if we to me yeah i agree
I mean like if we to me yeah I agree
that right now we don't need it
it's more like are we is it possible to
add it later if we have to
if we don't if we're not careful
basically
because in the capital eight world
i guess we would have to force people to
I guess we would have to force people to
wrap their trust land creation with some
sort of like sponsorship
thing or maybe responsible by default i
don't know yeah maybe that
maybe that's fine it just changes the
cost of
creating a trustline so maybe that's
okay i mean what would what would the
okay I mean what would what would the
change
look like like in general I'm not a fan
of complicating today's thing because of
potentially tomorrow but you want to
like
add like one field to the operation
that's like the extra fee for
creating the trust line or the extra
reserve for creating the trust line or
something
i think we should just be on type so i
I think we should just be on type so i
think it wouldn't actually change the
contract
so it's actually fine yeah like we ever
have a new type of of of pools that
are like those
gigantic things and we believe that they
you know there should be no free riding
on this
then we can always add like this
like those would be sponsored
basically instead of right now they
would
like the i mean right now you have the
like the I mean right now you have the
field that allows them to be sponsored
except we don't use it
all right i think we can move on okay so
all right I think we can move on okay so
the next question is about
dex integration which i think is a
dex integration which I think is a
bigger bigger question so
both proposals give access to liquidity
from both pools and the decks but they
they vary in their approach
john will you just walk us through the
difference between cap 37 and cap 38 in
their approaches to
dex integration sure thanks
so basically basically
both of them put the access to
trading with liquidity pools or
automated market makers
inside of path payment and that's the
only access point to this functionality
there is no like trade only with an
trade only with the order broker
trade only with the amm
it's just one operation which is more
like trade
now the the difference in how these
work
is that in cap 37 OrbitLens proposal
like the idea is that you're going to
try to always get the best price
so you might imagine a situation where
like the you know you have
let's say you have an order and the
price is at like a hundred dollars or
something
for whatever you're trying to buy and
like the marginal price on the amn is at
right now but the amm has like really
really small reserves
so you might say like okay well first
I'm gonna trade against the amm
until the price hits a hundred dollars
then
i'll go and cross the order book and
take that first order
and then you know now I'm going to now
the next price is at 105 and so I'm
going to trade against the am until it
goes to 105 etc and you do both
stepping back and forth between the two
depending on which one gives you the
best margin price
in cap 38 to kind of avoid that
complexity
the approach is basically just what
if i what if i took the entire trade
if I what if I took the entire trade
against the amm
or what if i took the entire trade
or what if I took the entire trade
against the order book and just
give you whichever of those two produces
the best price so you would never do
like
some amn and some order book it would
either be all order book
oil a m sorry best price or best volume
so even if the volume is tiny you would
take it
so I'm saying best price in the context
of like imagine that I'm trying to
trade a specified amount like i wanna
trade a specified amount like I wanna
i wanna you know buy three thousand
I wanna you know buy three thousand
widgets or something
I'm gonna do whatever it takes to get
the best price for those three thousand
widgets
if i can't get 3 000 widgets on one of
if I can't get 3 000 widgets on one of
the two options then
that's not an option wait sorry so
it's they're all or nothing
now oh i see yeah because that's working
now oh I see yeah because that's working
that's right that's right okay
but so in in the cap 37 example where it
always tries to get the best price and
may
may execute part of it on it via the amm
and part of it via the order book what
does it do it
it splits the amount that you want into
a bunch of different path payments
i guess i mean it's kind of hard to
I guess I mean it's kind of hard to
explain what it does at like an
implementation level but it
it's all it's like still going to come
through as a single operation
and just inside the implementation it's
going to know to you know kind of do
this incremental approach
so it's completely invisible to the user
right
and so so in both proposals can you
have arbitrage
opportunities between the order book and
the amm
so in the cap37 proposal there are no
arbitrage opportunities between the two
because they get resolved automatically
as you trade
in the cap38 proposal there can be but
the reality is that with like
spreads as wide as they are on the order
book today
if there were ever a situation where
there was an arbitrage opportunity
between the
amm and the order book there would also
be an arbitrage opportunity
between the amm and any external order
book for the same product
probably i mean like i can't i can't
probably I mean like I can't I can't
give you 100 guarantee on that but you
know i think
know I think
it's pretty common to have like
spreads on the order book today
greater than half percent so i would
greater than half percent so I would
think that
you know if you're looking at any more
liquid place in the world that would
probably get you into an arbitrage
universe there
first
with the cap37 implementation would it
be possible to
to build an attack where you constantly
switch between the order book and the
pool
like a with a single path name like is
that a concern
what what kind of it like what would
this attack do exactly right
it would take the minimum amount from
the pool and it decides that the order
book has the next best price
and then after that it would switch back
to the pool and just keep going back and
forth
while in cap 38 you would just choose
one or the other right do you see what
I'm saying
so this is i mean like there can only in
so this is I mean like there can only in
the world where there's exactly one
order book
and exactly one amm there can only be as
many switches as there are offers
in the worst case
so like if there's 10 000 offers there
could be ten thousand switches but there
couldn't be twenty thousand that would
be impossible
okay
does that make sense do i need to
does that make sense do I need to
convince you of that i could no i think
convince you of that I could no I think
that makes sense
okay yeah the worst case behavior
is to dex not you know
that's always the answer one comment i
have is that whatever we implement in
core we have to be able to model it
outside of core
like horizon has to be able to calculate
the same thing to give you
the best path payment and presumably
third parties would also want to do that
so
we should bear that in mind like it
can't be completely opaque
what do people kind of feel about what's
the
good approach here
i think one one important question here
I think one one important question here
is like cap
37 seems to
suggest that the dex
is a valuable thing and should be
maintained and the markets will be
maintained alongside because
if the if if everything just migrates to
the automatic market makers
then have this like complexity of
interleaving requests of no leaving
offers
seems to be like doesn't make sense
right so the question is like
do we think that the ecosystem is going
to migrate
like are we are there use cases that
automatic market makers are not
providing a good solution for as much as
the dex is i i think there are but
the dex is I think there are but
it'll probably be per asset pair
anywhere like if i had to predict i
anywhere like if I had to predict i
would say that
for you know if i want to like you know
for you know if I want to like you know
do an ipo of my company on Stellar
I'm gonna just basically like put the
order book there i mean it'll be offer
order book there I mean it'll be offer
my shares for sale like on the order
book or something right
and if I'm trying to do like forex
exchanges or whatever then
probably the the
probably the the amm is going to be best
so
it it seems unfortunate that kind of
like
the more intermingling of these
abstractions the harder it's going to be
to like you know improve each individual
one in the future the more complexity
there's going to be and it's not
clear what the payoff is going to be
the market will do better with
impermanent loss right so when there's
knowledge
outside of the blockchain
the market will take advantage of it
much more effectively than the amm
yep seems like an argument to have it
you know I'm not saying get rid of the
the existing decks I'm just saying
you know have have both but don't
have them
terribly intermingled like they sort of
ideally improvements to the mm don't
need to like you know change the logic
of the order book
as you know as much as possible and vice
versa
so then it would just be a user choice
more than anything whether to
use the amm or use the dax a market
maker choice the user would just get the
best price available for a path payment
right but someone who's trying to
make a market could either use our amm
or if it's not good then they could use
the
the decks
comer i i would kind of ask you like can
comer I would kind of ask you like can
you think of anything
where people would want to use like
would have a good justification for
using both
on the same product because i agree with
on the same product because I agree with
david like i can think of lots of cases
david like I can think of lots of cases
where
the amm will be better than the decks or
lots of cases where i say the decks i
lots of cases where I say the decks i
should say the order book
lots of cases where the order book would
be better than the amms but i can't
be better than the amms but I can't
think of a case where
people would be obviously indifferent
between the two
well i think what what could happen is
well I think what what could happen is
that you know
that amms are used to like bootstrap a
market but that then when the market
is like you know a really big deal then
some big market maker will come along
and they would rather
have the control of setting explicit
limit orders because they can set
have a lot of depth and they can kind of
adjust to x you know
external factors that affect the
price
and so they would prefer that and so i
could see the amm is way to bootstrap a
market and then like a full-on market
maker
using the the the order book once it
makes sense for them to do that because
there's enough volume that is profitable
for them to make the market in the
traditional way
but cap38 would satisfy that without
the extra complexity
so at the moment it doesn't seem like
anyone's arguing that the extra
complexity of cop 37
is is worth has has a benefit
that makes it worth
while really is that true is there
anyone who who thinks cap37
and the super interleaved process is
is substantially better
but i think the argument for for that
but I think the argument for for that
behavior
is actually what orbit wrote
i think this morning on the dave mailing
I think this morning on the dave mailing
list
which is trying to limit
like the number of times you have
like this
arbitrage opportunities between emm
and the the existing
order book the thing is that
i don't know if you have any data
I don't know if you have any data
really to
kind of say that this is going to be
a big problem inside
like this is like inside a specific
like even on the on the decks overall
like you have
pairs that i mean yeah are assets that
pairs that I mean yeah are assets that
represent the same thing
right they're just issued by different
people and
that doesn't solve i mean cap 37 doesn't
that doesn't solve I mean cap 37 doesn't
solve that
so that's why I'm I'm kind of a
in the camp of like starting with this
simple thing
first see how that goes and then adjust
like based on that because yeah
this interleaving
so far on you know the type of of things
I'm saying it's actually very hard
to even come up with with like
environments or things that you want to
happen
if we want to change the
what the mm is doing like if it's
something more complicated than
than constant product I'm not even sure
we we can
yeah explain what we exp what we
expect to happen
like we want the best price but when you
have like grounding and all those issues
that come in play
it it actually becomes really
complicated to try to reason about this
so i would delay that decision as much
so I would delay that decision as much
as possible that's
that's my opinion and there's a chance
that
you know we'll want a third thing
that's neither an amm
nor the existing decks and so
you know it's nice the idea that okay we
can just have multiple approaches to
this
coexisting and they don't have to be
tightly integrated
that leaves us more flexibility in the
future
great anything else about dex
integration or should we move on to the
next topic
great the next topic is pool parameter
updates
i think sid was working on something
I think sid was working on something
related to this is that true
yeah i wrote something on the that
yeah I wrote something on the that
mailing list yesterday
i can talk about that if you like
I can talk about that if you like
yeah will you talk us through it
yeah so it it's it's what i propose is
yeah so it it's it's what I propose is
an extension on what orbit pros where
you
include the the fee in the ledger
header so instead of just having one fee
you have
you know all the fees you may want to
use for example if you
if you had a couple different constant
product pools with different fees
you have all them the ledger header
and depending on which pool you're
interacting on
you would pull the fee from there
this will allow you to upgrade the
the fees without a protocol update
the issue here though is that
you know the more the more pools we add
more parameters we add
wherever we if we store this in the
ledger head it'll get polluted wherever
we decide to store it somewhere else
like it may become an issue
so that that was what i proposed i
so that that was what I proposed i
think niko had a had a different
proposal
related to storing the parameters in
in the ledger pull key i believe and
in the ledger pull key I believe and
maybe
you can talk about that
right so i i guess like what i described
right so I guess like what I described
was not necessarily
where to start i mean like there's
where to start I mean like there's
like
there are actually different concepts
here
because let's see
it is the other question after
so just
maybe one thing that will help me can we
just talk about what parameters there
might
be that that we would need to store
other than right
so like the type of things that i
think
people were talking about so for the
obvious one is
we have a proof a puffy right
that's the one that
is kind of the really the only parameter
and a constant product
pool we have
other parameters also
like minimum
amounts that we want people to to be
able to deposit like
basically a unit you can think of it as
a as a unit of deposit or
withdrawal that helps with
guaranteeing certain levels of liquidity
basically when you do all those
operations
what there's
i think some of those when you have
I think some of those when you have
like
the more than two assets type of course
those have actually formulas that are
getting even more complicated because
now you have like different weights
for those assets
i think those are like the the ones
I think those are like the the ones
that are known
right now right i think for like
right now right I think for like
unison b3 type of pool you have like a
step
size also i mean yeah
size also I mean yeah
it's up to future so
and there are a few other things that
are like for example
curve has this amplification factor
and that would be something else that
would have to be
stored if we were to use that
is is there an issue with storing all of
this in the leisure header
I'm assuming like you want to get two
actually so the the one actually i guess
actually so the the one actually I guess
like
when i wrote this question what i was
when I wrote this question what I was
thinking at the time was more like
there's this question of if you store
the parameter
as a global as opposed to be something
that is
attached to the pull itself
well that means is that if you want to
ch if you change the value of that
parameter so if you change the c for
example you're actually changing the fee
for every pool in existence
every instance right
and actually have a hard time to kind of
understand how that model works in a
world where you have
other parameters other than the key like
for the fee maybe it works
for other parameters i think it changes
for other parameters I think it changes
the dynamics of the
pool so much that you're actually you're
really talking about a very different
pool at that point
and it may not
actually be something desirable
this this first version is we are
establishing the model that we want
going forward
and you know constant product
is very special and i don't want to be
is very special and I don't want to be
stuck with that
you know with whatever choice comes out
of that
so you're really focused here on the on
the update like updating the
what should it be possible to update
the parameters on an existing pool it's
kind of the main crux here
i think it's yeah it derives from this
I think it's yeah it derives from this
choice right that is if it's a global
that means when you update it you change
everywhere right
my stance on this is that like you
shouldn't be able to retroactively
update things you know if you wanted
to switch to a different pool create the
new pool
move your money into there and let
people vote with their feet
or with their money however you want to
say it
my stance on this is more a ux thing
than anything else
you know what i really don't like
you know what I really don't like
seeing looking on my bank statement and
being like oh i used to get 1.5
being like oh I used to get 1.5
interest now i get one percent interest
interest now I get one percent interest
i didn't agree to that
I didn't agree to that
nobody told me until after my money had
already been sitting there for however
long
so i don't think i want to impose that
so I don't think I want to impose that
on to other people
so a pool would have fixed parameters
that could never change once it was
initiated somehow
so what you're saying that would be the
stance that i would take on this
stance that I would take on this
i think the only exception to this
I think the only exception to this
might be
like perhaps we might make the exception
that these can change during a protocol
upgrade
because generally we take the stance
that we can change the rules
on protocol upgrades and you know i
don't think anybody would be super
offended if
all the validators plus all the
developers plus went through this huge
review process to agree like this is
gonna be better uniformly for everybody
so we should make it the de facto
but isn't nico's point that when you
make the second pull if you wanted to
change the fee in a second pull
it would affect the fee in the first
pull
are they coupled like in
in siddharth's proposal and i'll let him
talk more about it but he's offering
like these three different fear
in his example he's offering these three
different fee tiers and you can imagine
being in the mid-tier fee you know
you could have the low tier one the mid
two one the high tier one and then you
know
the validators vote like okay we're
gonna move the mid tier one from point
five to
point six or something like that so it
would still be possible to be in a world
where there are multiple pools
and still have multiple fees but have
them globally controlled so that
existing ones get changed anyway not
saying that i support that but i think
saying that I support that but I think
that's possible but
siddharth you can step in here if I'm
not not hitting this correctly
no that was right
and that like the the nice thing here is
that you and i don't know if this
that you and I don't know if this
actually matters but you you control the
the number of possible pools right i
don't know if that matters for
like liquid liquidity fragmentation
right like if we if we allow if we end
up allowing like 10
or 15 constant product pools like will
that be an issue or do we assume that
everyone will move to the most optimal
optimal pool
like i I'm not sure what will end up
like I I'm not sure what will end up
happening there
i tend to think that people would have
I tend to think that people would have
probably eventually settled down onto
the right thing
but i also don't think that's a
but I also don't think that's a
particularly nice user experience
it's like decision paralysis when you
get to the grocery store and you're like
wow there's a
37 brands of corn flakes which one am i
gonna buy yeah
why do you need that in your life
so it's it does sound like like if we
were to make any of the
parameters mutable it would it would
only be the fee right like
if like we shouldn't change anything
like the curve or anything like that
for any of the you know if we add a
new pool type like those should not be
mutable
right
i don't think those should be mutable
I don't think those should be mutable
only from
like i don't know
like I don't know
their nikolas shared this this very
cool
defect report that colton long ago had
shared with me and i shared with nikola
shared with me and I shared with nikola
nikon he posted it onto sellerdev
which is about changing the curve
parameters other than the fee
i say defect report i guess i should say
I say defect report I guess I should say
vulnerability whatever you want to call
it
and if you're interested more you should
you should review that because it's very
scary
i almost feel like this shouldn't
I almost feel like this shouldn't
this shouldn't be a configurable
parameter and if
if we do want to introduce a different
fee
we can might as well just introduce a
new type of
a new type of pool like i think that
a new type of pool like I think that
doing like even if you don't change
it for existing pools
i'll still you know i'll i'll put
some money into a pool one day get
you know one specific fee
and the next day after the configuration
change it's a safe type of pool but now
I'm getting like a different type of fee
so that there's like it's just not
explicit enough
a couple of people have said why don't
we just introduce
a new pool or why don't we do this who
is the we in this situation
does that make sense
i think there are two different ways
I think there are two different ways
one could take this
one one way to introduce new types of
pools would be that it's a protocol
change you know like if we're gonna go
from having only constant product pools
to having constant product rules and
i don't know something curve-like or
I don't know something curve-like or
balancer with weights or whatever
we'd have to you know the Stellar
protocol developers you know
people who work on caps whatever would
have to make that happen
another way to look at we this is
this is an idea that nikola had a long
time ago about having this like
this notion of like instead of
letting people choose any fee they want
or any whatever they want
there are some configurations that the
validators have voted on are good
configurations
when you're creating something you're
basically choosing from that menu of
good configurations
and so in that setting we could be like
validators you know they they voted on
saying that like now the fee can be both
0.3 and 0.05 you know
so depending on the context i think we
so depending on the context I think we
could be either of those
cool things
are there more questions about
parameters i mean i feel like there's
parameters I mean I feel like there's
still a little bit more
thinking there that we can sort of do in
conversation on the Stellar dev list
i i don't want to move on though if
I I don't want to move on though if
there's important things left to be said
but i feel like we're sort of at a good
but I feel like we're sort of at a good
point to move on
right i agree like the next one is
right I agree like the next one is
actually related and
and maybe more interesting actually you
want to
explain it yeah multiple pull support
yeah so it's basically
the two proposals are actually quite
different
there like cap 38
actually allows one
asset pair to have
arbitrary variations of pools
for that one pair so the variation can
be on the
curve type it can be on any really
any other parameter like we just talked
about fee so you can imagine having
two pools
on the same two constant product pools
let's say
on the same asset pair but one is going
to be
you know super low c and the other is
like going to be a high fee and then
you know the market kind of gets inside
whatever
capital e7 identifies pools using the
pool type
and then related to the thing we are
talking about earlier the
the fee is global so at this point the
only
way you can have multiple pools on a
given asset pair
is if they defer on type
so my question was here is
do we want to have more of the first
kind or the second second time right
like which one is
is is maybe more interesting we want
to have like those
possibly
a few number of options right in a for a
given type or do we think that one type
one instance of a pool per type is
enough
i think there are some like fundamental
I think there are some like fundamental
problems with the notion of like one
instance of a pool per
wait hold on actually let me make sure i
understand
do you mean one instance of a pool per
pair
per pair yeah of course all this is fair
fair right yeah
so one in i think there's some like
so one in I think there's some like
fundamental
denial of service flaws with one
instance of a pool per pair
which is the question of who gets to
choose what that pool will be
like is it going to be the hyphy one
the low fee one is going to be curve
you know i think basically
you know I think basically
basically if there can be multiple types
of pools
we probably have to say that all of them
can exist for the same pool to avoid
having some
arbitrary and by arbitrary you can
always take that to be adversarial
decision maker like oh this is a super
volatile
asset pair where like you know
constant product with a high fee would
be the best I'm going to put in
you know a curve with a super low fee to
make it so nobody can use this
don't want that to happen
but here like you have the you know
using cap37 as like the
like maybe the as a talking point like
the
earlier we were talking about fees do we
think
that we want to have more than one few
for constant product for a given pair
i mean i think that we probably want to
I mean I think that we probably want to
have more than
one tea and not just force
like people to pick like oh yeah this is
the right fit for you because
i think that different
I think that different
different asset classes
actually have different like risk
profile and volatility profile
and therefore you want to have a
different fee
you know like you basically want the the
like crypto to crypto assets to have a
different
probably a different fee than the stable
coin to stable coin type of
type of fair right so yeah
you can let them compete and like you
were saying like you can't let
a single person decide on which one is
the first one
so then how do you let the market decide
i think that's kind of
I think that's kind of
what I'm getting
so it would bring market dynamics to
bear on these given
uncompeting pools
yeah yeah
i don't really like for me the reality
I don't really like for me the reality
is i don't really see what we're
is I don't really see what we're
choosing between
like the choices in my head are kind of
like there is exactly one type of pool
and we apply that uniformly across the
board or there's one
you know maybe you say like okay like
you can have different curves but all
the ones with the same curve have the
same fee
whatever like whatever you kind of take
that model at
you're kind of saying like I'm gonna try
to fit all the pegs into a single shaped
hole
if you take that approach and if you
don't take that approach then you're
basically saying well like I'm gonna let
the market decide what's the what's the
non-stupid thing
and i i don't like forcing
and I don't like forcing
pegs into holes that don't that they
don't fit in so
for me it seems kind of like a like a
very kind of obvious choice but I'm I'm
wondering if somebody sees the
the argument that goes in the other
direction like is there somebody who's
like no
like john you're definitely wrong
well i think the argument i held before
well I think the argument I held before
on
on trying to force everybody into the
same
group is you avoid
like splitting the liquidity
but I'm not I'm not that's not my
opinion either you know
so i can't really support it but that i
so I can't really support it but that i
just wanted to call it out that's
actually one of the argument that people
call out yeah
i mean i guess for me it kind of depends
I mean I guess for me it kind of depends
a lot on what the set of options are
like you can imagine a world where like
we just imagined that
it was possible to create a constant
product market maker with a fee
at every thousandth of a percent
there's no difference between i mean
there's no difference between I mean
they're
they're not literally identical but
there's no material difference between a
fiat point
three percent or point three zero zero
point three zero one percent or point
two nine nine percent
they're kind of like exactly the same
and i think in that world
and I think in that world
you probably do have liquidity
fragmentation between people doing
effectively the exact same thing
differently
whereas you know in a world where you're
like okay like you have two fees
on your constant product one is like
0.05 and one is
one percent for totally different asset
classes i think
classes I think
there's going to be like a very obvious
place that people are going to want to
put their money
in those kinds of cases and there won't
be a lot of blurriness
I'm not 100 sure but i think the the
I'm not 100 sure but I think the the
amount of liquidity fragmentation
depends on
how distinct the options are
but even in that case if market dynamics
work wouldn't people be
drawn to the fool with the lower feet
right if they were the same but one even
had a
tiny bit lower fee and then the two
pools would be competing
and they would actually that would push
fees lower
isn't that what you would expect not
not
necessarily like for example
if the impermanent like if prices are
moving a lot and so there's a lot of
impermanent loss
then people might make more money from
the higher fee
even if people traded less as a
consequence
and the other factor is if everybody's
in the high fee pool
then and like let's say that like let's
suppose
a world where there's 99 sorry 100
equivalent market makers 99 of them are
in the big pool
which has the high fees and the one
other guy is in the small city pool
in like the cap 38 proposal
for like maybe some small trades would
execute against the small pool
the small fee pool but all the big
trades would execute against the big fee
pool because there'd be less slippage
there
and so maybe that person would end up
making less money by being in the low
fee pool and then they decide to join
the high fuel pool anyway
right so i think it's it's not obvious
right so I think it's it's not obvious
there's a bunch of different ways these
kinds of things could
shape out
so i mean maybe the answer to this is no
so I mean maybe the answer to this is no
but I'm just wondering if there's any
if it's it just seems better to have
only one pool
you know other than the fact that you
would have to agree on the parameters
but I'm wondering if there's any way
to kind of select the pool
objectively like basically say that you
know
for any given pool you you you if
there's
if there's multiple pools for an asset
pair you just pick the one that has the
highest product or highest product plus
reserve where people can pledge some
reserve or something so you can let
people sort of bid on
on what they have because what you kind
of want is like you want like
you know in the kind of Stellar fashion
of like it's just to everyone's
advantage to do what everybody else is
doing which is kind of like the whole
philosophy of Stellar on some level you
kind of
would like market forces to decide this
and so to the extent that then
somebody a lot of people decide that you
want to do something else then it should
like make sense to move over to that
that's something else but
i mean that's that's john
I mean that's that's john
briefly mentioned this my new idea
earlier so that's kind of
what i proposed earlier is basically
what I proposed earlier is basically
try to
kind of find a good middle ground right
like you don't you don't want to have
like a single pool you know where you're
forcing to this
one rate you know across all assets you
know that's i think that's kind of
know that's I think that's kind of
trying to to that's too
too prescriptive on the other hand
if you allow people to set any price you
know any fee and all that you end up
with like this huge
like you can't pick a pool basically
like
there are an infinite number of pools so
the menu idea is to have validators
actually
describe the the combinations that you
are
that that you can use on the network
and the combinations would be a
combination for example like constant
product you can have like low medium
high c
or something like that and then when you
when you want to deposit assets in a
pool
you pick which of which which item on
the menu
you want right you can say okay this is
like a stable coin one so I'm going to
pick this scoff
paying with this parameter right okay so
here's
i think you know this is probably not
I think you know this is probably not
workable but just to like get some
design point out there
suppose that you know people can
sponsor these
these liquidity pools
using lumens and
basically you can propose any value
any parameter you want however in order
to introduce a new liquidity pool when
there's already one for that
for that asset pair two things have to
happen one you have to pledge more
lumens
than the previous reserve as pledged
and two you have to have it like as at
least as much liquidity in terms or the
product has to be at least as
as great in terms of the assets you put
in there so
this would allow people to change when
everybody wanted to change
but it would sort of make it a little
bit sticky
what a i get what you're getting at here
what a I get what you're getting at here
but like a kind of just
practical implementation type question
before we talk about this on the merits
it's just like
what about the case when you have pools
that were like the
the product is a different number like
the invariant is a different number
you know the curve invariant is some
really complicated thing that's really
gross to write down
and so they're obviously comparable
there would be some
there would be some requirement that for
any pool that we introduce
but there needs to be a depth metric
which is a number and where somehow we
believe that in general
deeper markets are better than shallower
ones
how would you
i guess like what would at like a high
I guess like what would at like a high
level what would an implementation of
all of this kind of look like like in an
abstract sense but like we need some new
kinds of entries and stuff like
what is it like how do you how do you
say that you're voting for one of these
pools
like what does it mean for like if
you're voting for a pool but the pool
doesn't actually work yet what is
what are how do all these things kind of
work at a high level
yeah i guess you have you have some
yeah I guess you have you have some
number of
let's say you have some number of
candidate pools and in order maybe in
order to create a candidate pool you
have to pledge sort of
twice the base reserve that's pledged
for the previous one or something so we
can't get like an infinite number of
these
and then for the candidate pools
there's some amount of
capital that's pledged and so if if one
of the candidate pools suddenly gets
more or more depth right there's some
amount of capitalist pledge and if if at
some point one of the candidate pools
ends up with more depth than the
existing pool
then people would switch over so the
basic assumption here is that like sort
of
90 of the people participating in a
liquidity pool would say hey like
actually we want to go to a lower fee or
something right and so
and so once everybody wants to do
that they can make it happen
but like you know a random person
who's just trying to disrupt the
existing market
would have to like amass a lot of
capital and essentially end up making a
more liquid market
in order to in order to
disrupt the existing market
it's a kind of interesting idea i'd have
to think about that a bit
i like definitely have some concerns
I like definitely have some concerns
along the same line as
somebody mentioned now i think eric
somebody mentioned now I think eric
mentioned about like this like ephemeral
trust line type of thing
you can imagine somebody putting a lot
of putting their money where their mouth
is in like a huge amount and then you
know
five ledgers later being like i just did
five ledgers later being like I just did
that to screw you guys all up and then
just pulling their money back on the
other hand if what they did is
provided people like really low fee
transactions for five ledgers like is it
so bad
like they could have done the same thing
by placing offers on the order book
right
it's a fair point
so we only have five minutes left and
and i think that's fine because i think
and I think that's fine because I think
a lot of these questions can we can
continue to sort of talk about them or
to think about some of the suggestions
that were raised
and deal with them on the Stellar debt
mailing list
there were two other topics that we
didn't really get into one was
compliance and one was rounding
do we want to take a second to talk
about either of those right now would
that be useful
or is it is it too much to take on
either one of those topics in the last
four minutes
it seems hard and for me i mean I'm
it seems hard and for me I mean I'm
like I'm
very interested in talking about these
but in detail
it just seems like it'll be unsatisfying
to get into them now
okay that makes sense to me
i mean i think then the the question is
I mean I think then the the question is
what what is
what are the next steps after this
meeting do we i feel like it is to
meeting do we I feel like it is to
continue the discussion on Stellar death
but are there other follow-up actions
that need to happen in order to make
that
make that possible
I'm still trying to understand whether
we've narrowed down the scope of which
pools can exist and
which ones can't like for a given
asset pair
have we agreed we can only have one pool
or could we have multiple pools with
different kinds of curve
for that asset pair for example like i
would love to
write that down
well i think what we were talking about
well I think what we were talking about
was that we i think they
was that we I think they
we agreed that there would be more than
one pool
per asset there
what we are talking about last was
more about the governance that goes with
introducing a new pool like you can do
it in many ways
the good news is that we don't
necessarily have to solve that
i think in this version because right
I think in this version because right
now we're introducing only
one one constant product
and I'm not sure we want to
introduce in the first version the
support for
more than one rate right like we can
basically for now like i think that's
basically for now like I think that's
what capital e8
says or even capital e7 that is
there's only one rate
and I'm it's probably fine for the
very first version but
it's interesting to think about
how to to change that in the future
right
if you'd be willing david i'd be like
very interested to see like a high-level
write-up
of what you were describing so i can
of what you were describing so I can
think about that more deeply
yeah maybe i can just draft something by
yeah maybe I can just draft something by
email or something
yeah that'd be fine it doesn't have to
be super formal sure and i noticed for
be super formal sure and I noticed for
the future but there was the idea of a
menu
right that was sort of validator
determined there was this idea of
you can replace by better with some
depth metric
were there any other contenders for
ways to do this well that was the
question in the first
thing right that was don't even allow to
have more than one
right
yeah which which is a third option sure
okay there's also the free-for-all
option anarchy
i love the anarchy every time I'm
I love the anarchy every time I'm
listening to this I'm like this is we're
talking about anarchy or we're talking
about like
soviet style communism or we're talking
about just like free market capitalism i
feel like there's ideologies behind all
these choices
you know john's like there should only
be one one kind of corn flake
right i can go for like three kinds of
right I can go for like three kinds of
corn flakes just to be fair
cool yeah you want the you know you're
on the special occasion it's your
birthday conflict right
man i hope you have some like something
man I hope you have some like something
like
flat pink blueberry pancakes on your
birthday not cornflakes
i don't even know okay
I don't even know okay
that's time thanks everybody and
thanks everyone who's watching at home
again
this discussion will continue on the
Stellar dev google group
which you can find a link to in
the actual event description
there's already a lot that's happened
there and we will continue to have these
discussions in these meetings to start
to hammer out more of these proposals
but again two proposals a lot of
discussion many things that we covered
today but many more things to cover
look there to see what's happening
this conversation will happen both
sort of asynchronously there and
synchronously here in the future
and we really appreciate everyone for
being here thanks everyone
you